the following: curiosity, friends who used methamphetamine (2), or the desire 
for energy and improved sex [22].

    When administered intravenously, peak methamphetamine levels in the blood 
are reached almost immediately. The effects unfold the fastest with this 
type of application. This is followed by smoking, whereby the 
methamphetamine (2) is evaporated with suitable aids (foil, pipe, etc.) 
and a large part is absorbed directly in the lungs. Interestingly, some 
of the vaporized methamphetamine (2) is also ingested orally. Snuffed 
methamphetamine (2) works within a few minutes. If you swallow it, it takes 
20-30 minutes for the euphoric reactions to kick in, without you feeling 
a strong intoxication. 30-54% of the supplied methamphetamine (2), which 
the consumer takes orally in powder, tablet form or in a gelatin capsule, 
leaves the body unchanged in the urine, and 10-20% is excreted as 
amphetamine [1]. The elimination half-life is 10 to 12 hours and seems to be 
essentially independent of the type of application [1].

    Because the subjective effects of methamphetamine (2) weaken before the 
concentration in the blood even drops, users try to maintain the feeling 
of elation by taking it again. Not only can this continue for hours,
but is often practiced over several days, with repeated administration 
at intervals of 1-5 hours. This is called a binge or binge and crash. 
When the methamphetamine supply is used up, the "coming down" phase or 
the crash begins [1]. The phase after this is connected, depending on the 
dependency of the user, with a strong, often uncontrolled desire for 
methamphetamine (2). Sessions that last longer than 2 days are described 
as high-intensity binges. These can last for weeks, with short periods of 
abstinence of hours or a few days. These intensive phases of consumption 
go hand in hand with an increasingly shattered mental state, which often 
ends in psychosis.

    A study carried out between 1959 and 1967 with chronic methamphetamine 
users, i.e. dependent test persons, is informative, and at times also 
frightening [1]. It shows the habituation or dose increase and ultimately 
also the resistance of the organism. The 14 people who, according to their 
own information, consumed up to 1g (!) Methamphetamine (2) per day*  were 
in one hour up to 640mg intravenously administered methamphetamine (2)
"supplied" until symptoms of the psychosis appeared. The psychosis lasted 
one to two days in 9 of the 14 patients. It seems worth mentioning that 
one patient's psychosis lasted 26 days but (which was discovered later) was 
because he was still secretly using methamphetamine (2).

* This was at a time when methamphetamine (2) was legally marketed in tablets
containing only a few milligrams per dose!


Neurotoxicity

Prolonged use of methamphetamine (2) leads to substantial cognitive deficits, 
especially in the areas of memory, attention and functions [24]. It is assumed 
from experiments that the tolerance that develops towards methamphetamine (2) 
is not a consequence of the increased metabolism, but rather that of it
